# Homework 07: Building your own R package

## Overview

Due November 13, 2018 at 23:59.

Your task, high level: add a function to the [`powers`](https://github.com/vincenzocoia/powers) R package, or Jenny's [`foofactors`](https://github.com/jennybc/foofactors) package, adding/updating the appropriate documentation.

## Evaluation

The [usual rubrics](http://stat545.com/Classroom/assignments/#evaluation) apply. More generally, you can think of the different levels for this assignment as follows:

0: did not submit.

1: Package does not install. Or installation seemed go OK but one or more of the functions don't work. Or you do something that seems totally natural (probably copied from `README.md` or vignette) and get odd behavior.

2: Hits most/all the elements. No obvious technical difficulties. Package pleasant to use. `README.md` and vignette are pleasant to read and provide accessible examples of usage. No heroic detective work required. Good work! (90%)

3: Exceeded the requirements in number of dimensions. Took `foofactors` or `powers` farther than was required. Wrote a new package from scratch. Experience of installation and usage was dreamy because of excellent documentation and high functionality. You learned something new from reviewing their work and you're eager to incorporate it into your work. Wow!

## Getting Started

As usual, create a homework repository by following the link provided on canvas. This homework repo should be the home of your R package.

To seed your homework repo with either [`powers`](https://github.com/vincenzocoia/powers) or [`foofactors`](https://github.com/jennybc/foofactors), you can either fork the repos, or use the "Download ZIP" button. Check out [this help page](hw07-help.md) if you need help with this -- it uses `foofactors` as the example.

## Submitting

Once you're done the assignment, go back to UBC canvas, and find the "Homework 07" page. Here, do the following:

- Provide a link to your homework repository.
- Write a brief reflection about your experience with this assignment: what was hard/easy, problems you solved, helpful tutorials you read, etc. No need to write lots here.

Although you don't have to do this until the very end, we highly recommend you commit and push to your homework repo regularly!

## The Assignment

In this homework you will either continue developing the [`powers`](https://github.com/vincenzocoia/powers) package developed in class (this link takes you to the "complete" version), or Jenny's [`foofactors`](https://github.com/jennybc/foofactors) package. 

Aim for the following elements:

* Define and export one new function, i.e. make it available to a user upon loading the package.
* Give function arguments sensible defaults, where relevant.
* Document all exported functions.
* Include at least three unit tests for your new function that test common use cases that you anticipate of the function.
* Your package should pass `check()` without errors (warnings and notes are OK).
* Update the README and vignette to show usage of all the functions in the package.
* Modify the instructions telling someone how to install your package.

Ideas for more `foofactor` functions to write:

- detect factors that should be character because # unique values = length
- write a version of reorder() that uses `desc()` a la `(d)plyr`
- write a version of `factor()` that sets levels to the order in which they appear in the data, i.e. set the levels "as is"
- functions to write and read data frames to plain text delimited files while retaining factor levels; maybe by writing/reading a companion file?

Ideas for more `powers` functions to write:

- Maybe put another family of transforms via the Box-Cox transform.
- Maybe something related to logarithms (and/or Box-Cox inverses).

Ideas to add "wow" to your submission (to get beyond 90%)

- Add a family of related functions instead of just one
- Implement [S3 object oriented functions](http://adv-r.had.co.nz/OO-essentials.html)
- Design your own package from scratch (for example, a [data package](http://www.davekleinschmidt.com/r-packages/) like `gapminder`, or even simpler).
- ...

## A note on plagiarism

Because this assignment gets you to make some changes to an existing R package, presenting the final product in your own repo, __we expect many aspects of your submission to be the same as the `powers` or `foofactors` repo__. Just include a link to the original version of the work. 

Outside of this course, you'd be developing a package in a forked repo, destined to be merged to the master repo. The commit history would provide authorship information on the files. We'll be working towards implementing this workflow into future iterations of STAT 547M to bypass the rather artificial "homework repo".