# Homework 09: Automating Data-analysis Pipelines

## Overview

The homework is due Tuesday, November 27, 2018, at 23:59.

Your task, high level: modify the [`make` activity](http://stat545.com/automation04_make-activity.html) pipeline we made in class. The [finished product](https://github.com/STAT545-UBC/make-activity) of the `make` activity should already be seeded in your homework repos, ready for you to modify.

### Getting Started

As usual, create a homework repository by following the link provided on canvas. You'll see the seeded pipeline already there.

### Evaluation

All [rubrics](http://stat545.com/Classroom/assignments/#evaluation) __except__ the "graphs" and "tables" rubrics will be used to evaluate this assignment.

### Submitting

Once you're done the assignment, go back to UBC canvas, and find the "Homework 09" page. Here, do the following:

- Provide a link to your homework repository.
- Write a brief reflection about your experience with this assignment: what was hard/easy, problems you solved, helpful tutorials you read, etc. No need to write lots here, this just allows us to make improvements for next year.

Although you don't have to do this until the very end, we highly recommend you commit and push to your homework repo regularly!

## Expectations

Successfully completing these expectations will get you 90%.

For the analysis itself:

- Add one R script and one Rmd script, and add them to the `make` pipeline by modifying the Makefile. Each file should have some output -- for the Rmd, the output should at least be a document (like html, pdf, ...). The output of the R script can be whatever you want.
- Your additions need to be tied to the existing pipeline -- i.e., the R and Rmd files that you add shouldn't be stand-alone, or even stand-alone as a single unit.
- Your additions should correspond to some analysis -- that is, they shouldn't be a nonsense addition to the pipeline, with nonsense outputs. They should have some meaning/purpose for an analysis. 
- Be deliberate with your dependencies, output, and instructions in your Makefile: 
	- Your Makefile should be written so that, if a dependency changes, running `make` should update the appropriate output (and all downstream portions of the pipeline).
	- Running `make all` should result in having all output present in your repo.
	- Running `make clean` should remove all output. 
	- There shouldn't be any useless output, such as an `Rplots.pdf` file (which sometimes arises as a byproduct of running `Rscript`).

To form a tidy submission:

- Run the entire pipeline before submitting your assignment (so that all of the output is present and up-to-date with the latest version of your pipeline).
- Be sure to make it easy for the TA's to know what you changed from the original pipeline. This is best put in the README file. A high level description is more appropriate here, especially because we can get the details of what you changed by looking at the commit history. 
- Be sure to link to the [original product](https://github.com/STAT545-UBC/make-activity) that your homework repo was seeded with, as a way of recognizing that this original repo was not coded by you. This is __especially__ important if your homework repo has any life outside of this course!
- As usual, your README should make it clear to a newcomer (who knows `make`, git, R, etc.) what's going on in your repo. 

Here are some suggestions:

- Although you don't have to make your Rmd script rely on the output of your R script, this will probably make the most sense. Also, it might make the most sense for your addition to branch off close to the base of the existing pipeline, into another analysis. For example:
	1. Have your R script take `words.tsv` as its input, and output a csv or tsv containing relevant data for your analysis.
	2. Take that csv/tsv file as input to your Rmd, which communicates the results.
- Your analysis does __not__ have to be groundbreaking or exciting. For example, maybe you want to explore whether there's a relationship between the starting and ending letter of a word. Or perhaps you want to see which letters are most likely to appear repeated (next to each other) in a word.
- Your analysis doesn't need to be designed to justify the use of two files (R and Rmd) instead of just one. In fact, because we're only asking you to do a small analysis, it will probably make the most sense (in any other context) to write the analysis in a single Rmd file. The point of using two files here is to give you practice with small examples, so that you're better equipped to work with more complex analyses that _would_ benefit from more than one file.
- Own your README! It's yours to modify in whatever way you think is appropriate.


## Above Expectations: "Wow" factors

One way to convey "wow" for an extra 10% is to try things such as:

- Including scripts of different languages in your pipeline (such as python or LaTeX).
- Adding more phony targets besides `clean` and `all` -- especially if these phony targets correspond to something meaningful (perhaps `make analysis1` / `make analysis2` would be most relevant for this assignment).
- Making a pipeline from scratch to accomplish a different analysis.
- Making a graph of your pipeline, presented in your README -- especially if you can do this in an automated and reproducible way with some software. 
	- There have been some attempts at making software to do this: [makefile2dot](https://github.com/vak/makefile2dot), [GraphViz::Makefile](https://metacpan.org/pod/GraphViz::Makefile), [j4make](https://github.com/lindenb/j4make), [makefile2graph](https://github.com/lindenb/makefile2graph).
- Adding more structure to the project folder (perhaps folders such as `data`, `src`, `doc`, or others might be appropriate here?), created by automation where appropriate (with commands such as `mkdir`).

Note that one of these might not be enough for the full 10%, depending on how impactful it is on your overall submission.

## Below Expectations: Partial Marks

Having a hard time getting `make` working? You can still automate your pipeline with a "master R script", like we saw in Class Meeting 09 with the [LOTR pipeline Example 1](https://github.com/STAT545-UBC/STAT545-UBC.github.io/tree/master/automation10_holding-area/01_automation-example_just-r). Use this instead of a Makefile, but make it clear in your README that this is what you're doing.

Assignments that make this adjustment to the expectations can still get 70%, still with the extra 10% room to add "wow".
